Rest API Basics

API - Application Programming Interface 
		Interface - communication medium


Key Terms

Methods
Endpoints - http://api.weather.com/current
https://api.flipkart.com/books?id=123
			Base URL
Request and response
Data Format - JSON --> fields and values
Documentation

Tools available for API Testing

1. Postman
2. SoapUI - SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)
3. Katlon Studio - supports both API & UI testing
4. Rest Assured - Java based library for testing RESTful APIs
5. Swagger 
6. Insomnia

Types of APIs
REST - Representational State Transfer
SOAP - high level security - financial service
GraphQL - Facebook 
RPC - Remote Procedure Call
WebSocket API 

API Headers
Headers - pass additional information about the request/response between client and the server.
Request headers
	- used in HTTP requests sent by the client
	- Commonly used HTTP request headers
		1. Content-type - specifies the format of the data - json, xml, text, html
		2. Authorization - credentials information
		3. Accept - format of the response that the client expects

Response headers
	-  include responses from the server
	- Commonly used response headers
		1. Content-type - format of the data in the response body
		2. COntent-length - length of the response body
		3. Set-cookie - cookies stored by the client for future requests
	

CRUD operations
Create - POST
Read - GET
Update - PUT,PATCH
Delete - DELETE

HTTP Methods - HTTP Verbs - action to be performed on a particular resource
GET - retrieve the data from the server
POST - send the data to the server to create a new resource
PUT - update a resource that already exists on the server
PATCH - apply partial modifications to the resource
DELETE - remove a resource from the server

Authentication
	Identity of a user or a system
Authorization
	Access level

Types
1. No Authentication - no credentials required
2. Basic Authentication - Username and Password
3. OAuth - Open Authentication

			
Salesforce Application
	Endpoint URLs
	1. Generating the access token - https://login.salesforce.com/services/oauth2/token
	2. Creating a Lead - https://testleaf30-dev-ed.develop.my.salesforce.com/services/data/v58.0/sobjects/Lead
		00Q5j00000at3L1EAI
		00Q5j00000at3L1EAI

Status Codes
2xx series - Success
200 OK - response body contains the requested data
201 Created - a new resource is created 
202 Accepted - request has been accepted for processing
204 No Content - there is no content to send for the request

3xx - Redirection
301 Moved Permanently - URL has been changed permanently
302 Found - resource is temporarily under a different URL
304 Not Modified - client's cached version of the requested resource is up-to-date

4xx Client Errors
400 Bad Request - invalid syntax/data
401 Unauthorized - failed to provide proper authentication
403 Forbidden - client does not have access rights to the content
404 Not Found - The server cannot find the requested resource
405 Method Not Allowed - The request method is known by the server but is not supported by the target resource.

5xx Server Errors
500 Internal Server Error - The server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.
501 Not Implemented - The server does not support the functionality required to fulfill the request.
502 Bad Gateway - The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from the upstream server.
503 Service Unavailable - The server is not ready to handle the request, typically due to maintenance or overload.
